---
layout: post
title: Fuming! Update
date: 2023-05-03
subtitle: 
---

### Diesel/Heating fuel fumes in Bramley High Street - update  

Latest from Jeremy Hunt:  BRAMLEY UPDATE… As many of you will know, an awful chemical smell has been circulating throughout Bramley for the past few months, and is particularly evident in the Jolly Farmer Pub. Towards the end of March, the strength of the smell increased, and residents noticed a lot of activity and workmen at the local petrol station. I raised the issue once again with Waverley Borough Council, SCC Trading Standards, the EA and the petrol station’s senior leadership team. <br>
As a result of these enquiries and Jane Austin’s hard work as Bramley resident and Waverley Borough candidate, Trading Standards have now confirmed that during precautionary works at the petrol station on one of its tanks (tank 1) to repair the skin lining, and whilst sealing the ducts in the petrol chambers, leaks were identified to the gauge tops for tanks 2 and 4. Trading Standards think this may have been as a result of the pipe and tank pressure test carried out in February. However, the smell was first identified in January, so further investigations are required.
Trading Standards have been informed by the petrol station that a contractor was on site on Friday 28th April to rectify the leaking tank gauge/lids and conduct further inspections. I have now sent another letter to the petrol station’s senior leadership team for their response to the news of the leaks, and to ascertain the cause, whether any works remain outstanding and if they will share their concluding report with me. <br>
Like me, I know you will be relieved that we now have an answer, but also very concerned about the impact these leaks have had on our environment, including our waterways, and not to mention local businesses. Therefore, I have got back in touch with the Chair of the EA to update him, and request that a thorough investigation is commissioned into the extent of the environmental damage caused by these leaks. I have also updated Sarah Bentley, CEO at Thames Water, as Thames Water are actively carrying out remedial works to water pipes in Bramley. I will of course update you further as soon as I know more.<br>



See the history of this issue [here]({{ site.url }}/issue-pdfs/Issue-Fumes-in-Bramley-High-Street.pdf )

